docs/testing-quality/TEST-002-Continuous-Integration-and-Test-Automation.md, before:

TEST-002 Continuous Integration & Test Automation

  

  

  

Status

  

  

Accepted

  

  

Date

  

  

2025-10-24

  

  

Context

  

  

Neurocipher Pipeline (see docs/integrations/) depend on deterministic, repeatable builds and rapid feedback to maintain release confidence. Manual validation is insufficient at current code velocity. A unified Continuous Integration (CI) pipeline is required to ensure:

  

- Automated execution of all test suites (unit, integration, security, performance).
- Consistent build artifact generation across environments.
- Enforcement of quality gates before merge or deployment.

  

  

The pipeline must integrate directly with GitHub Actions and AWS CodeBuild for hybrid workflows.

  

  

  

  

Decision

  

  

Adopt a fully automated CI/CD test pipeline with the following characteristics:

  

1. Triggering  
    

- On every push, pull_request, and scheduled nightly build.
- Separate workflows for feature, staging, and production branches.

3.   
    
4. Automation Layers  
    

- Unit Tests: Executed via pytest or unittest, producing JUnit XML results.
- Integration Tests: Run in ephemeral containers using docker-compose within GitHub Actions.
- Static Analysis: Run ruff, bandit, and mypy for lint, security, and typing.
- Code Coverage: Measured with coverage.py; threshold ≥ 85%.
- Artifact Build: Docker image built and pushed to AWS ECR on successful tests.
- Notifications: Failures broadcast to Slack / Teams via webhook.

6.   
    
7. Environment Consistency  
    

- Base image pinned (python:3.11-slim) to avoid drift.
- Secrets managed via GitHub Secrets and AWS Secrets Manager.
- Test data isolated in temporary S3 buckets with automatic teardown.

9.   
    
10. Performance & Load Hooks  
    

- pytest-benchmark integrated into nightly workflow.
- Thresholds feed metrics into CloudWatch for trend tracking.

12.   
    

  

  

  

  

  

Rationale

  

  

Automated CI testing enforces quality and prevents regression.

Hybrid orchestration between GitHub Actions and AWS CodeBuild gives elasticity and parallelism without vendor lock-in.

The defined coverage and linting thresholds guarantee baseline maintainability and security posture.

  

  

  

  

Implementation

  

  

1. Workflow Definition  
    

- File: .github/workflows/ci.yml
- Key Jobs: lint, unit_tests, integration_tests, build_and_push.

3.   
    
4. Example Snippet

  

name: CI Pipeline

on: [push, pull_request]

jobs:

  test:

    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:

      - uses: actions/checkout@v4

      - uses: actions/setup-python@v5

        with: { python-version: '3.11' }

      - run: pip install -r requirements.txt

      - run: pytest --junitxml=reports/junit.xml --cov=src --cov-report=xml

      - run: ruff check .

      - run: bandit -r src/

      - run: mypy src/

      - run: docker build -t neurocipher/app:${{ github.sha }} .

  

2.   
    
3. Quality Gate Enforcement  
    

- PR merge blocked if coverage < 85 % or any test fails.
- Build must pass vulnerability scan before ECR push.

5.   
    
6. Reporting  
    

- Results aggregated in CodeBuild reports and uploaded to S3.
- Slack notifications via GitHub Actions workflow event.

8.   
    

  

  

  

  

  

References

  

  

- ADR-008 Testing & Quality Gates
- AWS CodeBuild Docs – Report Groups
- GitHub Actions Workflow Syntax v3
- OWASP CI/CD Security Best Practices

Commit message:

Add metadata and acceptance criteria to docs
Added id, title, owner, status, and last_reviewed metadata headers to all major documentation files. Acceptance criteria sections were introduced or expanded in ADRs, data models, contracts, reliability, observability, and DR plan docs. Updated runbook and alert links for clarity. Replaced 'Missing Docs.md' with 'Missing-Docs.md' tracker. These changes improve traceability, governance, and review readiness across the documentation set.

docs/testing-quality/TEST-002-Continuous-Integration-and-Test-Automation.md, after:

id: TEST-002
title: Continuous Integration and Test Automation
owner: QA Lead
status: Accepted
last_reviewed: 2025-10-24

TEST-002 Continuous Integration & Test Automation

  

  

  

Status

  

  

Accepted

  

  

Date

  

  

2025-10-24

  

  

Context

  

  

Neurocipher Pipeline (see docs/integrations/) depend on deterministic, repeatable builds and rapid feedback to maintain release confidence. Manual validation is insufficient at current code velocity. A unified Continuous Integration (CI) pipeline is required to ensure:

  

- Automated execution of all test suites (unit, integration, security, performance).
- Consistent build artifact generation across environments.
- Enforcement of quality gates before merge or deployment.

  

  

The pipeline must integrate directly with GitHub Actions and AWS CodeBuild for hybrid workflows.

  

  

  

  

Decision

  

  

Adopt a fully automated CI/CD test pipeline with the following characteristics:

  

1. Triggering  
    

- On every push, pull_request, and scheduled nightly build.
- Separate workflows for feature, staging, and production branches.

3.   
    
4. Automation Layers  
    

- Unit Tests: Executed via pytest or unittest, producing JUnit XML results.
- Integration Tests: Run in ephemeral containers using docker-compose within GitHub Actions.
- Static Analysis: Run ruff, bandit, and mypy for lint, security, and typing.
- Code Coverage: Measured with coverage.py; threshold ≥ 85%.
- Artifact Build: Docker image built and pushed to AWS ECR on successful tests.
- Notifications: Failures broadcast to Slack / Teams via webhook.

6.   
    
7. Environment Consistency  
    

- Base image pinned (python:3.11-slim) to avoid drift.
- Secrets managed via GitHub Secrets and AWS Secrets Manager.
- Test data isolated in temporary S3 buckets with automatic teardown.

9.   
    
10. Performance & Load Hooks  
    

- pytest-benchmark integrated into nightly workflow.
- Thresholds feed metrics into CloudWatch for trend tracking.

12.   
    

  

  

  

  

  

Rationale

  

  

Automated CI testing enforces quality and prevents regression.

Hybrid orchestration between GitHub Actions and AWS CodeBuild gives elasticity and parallelism without vendor lock-in.

The defined coverage and linting thresholds guarantee baseline maintainability and security posture.

  

  

  

  

Implementation

  

  

1. Workflow Definition  
    

- File: .github/workflows/ci.yml
- Key Jobs: lint, unit_tests, integration_tests, build_and_push.

3.   
    
4. Example Snippet

  

name: CI Pipeline

on: [push, pull_request]

jobs:

  test:

    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:

      - uses: actions/checkout@v4

      - uses: actions/setup-python@v5

        with: { python-version: '3.11' }

      - run: pip install -r requirements.txt

      - run: pytest --junitxml=reports/junit.xml --cov=src --cov-report=xml

      - run: ruff check .

      - run: bandit -r src/

      - run: mypy src/

      - run: docker build -t neurocipher/app:${{ github.sha }} .

  

2.   
    
3. Quality Gate Enforcement  
    

- PR merge blocked if coverage < 85 % or any test fails.
- Build must pass vulnerability scan before ECR push.

5.   
    
6. Reporting  
    

- Results aggregated in CodeBuild reports and uploaded to S3.
- Slack notifications via GitHub Actions workflow event.

8.   
    

  

  

  

  

  

Acceptance Criteria

- A CI workflow implementing the triggers and automation layers described here (unit, integration, static analysis, coverage, build, notifications) is defined and active for in-scope repositories.
- Coverage and quality gates (≥ 85% coverage, no failing tests, lint/security checks passing) are enforced as required status checks for PR merges.
- CI runs use pinned base images and manage secrets/test data according to the environment consistency rules in this document.
- Nightly or scheduled pipelines execute performance hooks and publish metrics to observability tooling for trend tracking.
- CI configuration remains aligned with ADR-008 and CI-001/CI-002; changes to the pipeline are reviewed and tested before rollout.

References

  

  

- ADR-008 Testing & Quality Gates
- AWS CodeBuild Docs – Report Groups
- GitHub Actions Workflow Syntax v3
- OWASP CI/CD Security Best Practices
