docs/serving/SVC-002-Offline-Export-Contract.md, before:

# Document ID: SVC-002
**Title:** Offline Export Contract Overview  
**Status:** Draft v0.1  
**Owner:** platform-serving / data platform  
**Last Reviewed:** 2025-11-09  
**References:** SVC-002-Offline-Export-Contract-Specification.md, LAK-001, PROC-001, DR-001

---

## 1. Purpose
Describe the governed interface for scheduled and ad-hoc exports (batch files, lakehouse pulls, customer S3 deliveries) to ensure consistent schemas, encryption, and auditing.

## 2. Export Channels
| Channel | Delivery | Frequency | Schema Source | Notes |
|---------|----------|-----------|---------------|-------|
| Lakehouse Snapshot | Iceberg manifest | Daily | `schemas/events/export.snapshot.v1.json` | Customers query via Athena workgroup |
| Customer S3 Drop | Encrypted Parquet | Hourly | `schemas/events/export.customer_drop.v1.json` | Customer-managed bucket, enforced KMS |
| Partner API Bundle | Signed ZIP via presigned URL | Ad-hoc | `schemas/events/export.partner.zip.v1.json` | Contains OpenAPI + sample payloads |
| Audit Package | GZIP JSON lines | Monthly | `schemas/events/export.audit.v1.json` | Includes hash chain + evidence pack |

## 3. Sample Deliveries
```text
s3://nc-exports-prod/acme/export.discovery.20251109.parquet
s3://nc-exports-prod/acme/export.discovery.20251109.parquet.sha256
```

```json
{
  "dataset": "discovery",
  "generated_at": "2025-11-09T03:30:00Z",
  "encryption": "aws:kms:arn:aws:kms:us-east-1:123456789012:key/acme",
  "records": 125034,
  "schema_version": "export.snapshot.v1"
}
```

```shell
aws s3 cp s3://nc-exports-prod/acme/export.discovery.20251109.parquet .
aws s3 cp s3://nc-exports-prod/acme/export.discovery.20251109.parquet.sha256 .
sha256sum --check export.discovery.20251109.parquet.sha256
```

## 4. Versioning Policy
| Channel | Current Version | Promotion Rule | Sunset Window |
|---------|-----------------|----------------|---------------|
| Lakehouse Snapshot | `snapshot.v1` | Promote after Iceberg schema passes contract suite | 120 days once `v2` announced |
| Customer S3 Drop | `customer_drop.v1` | Promote when dual-delivery succeeds for 7 days | 60 days |
| Partner API Bundle | `partner.zip.v1` | Promote post security review + sample approval | 90 days |
| Audit Package | `audit.v1` | Promote upon compliance sign-off | 180 days |

## 5. Contract Guardrails
- All exports derived from governed tables listed in LAK-001; no ad-hoc SQL without review.  
- Encryption: KMS CMKs per tenant; data classified ≥ Restricted uses customer-provided keys.  
- Naming: `export.<dataset>.<yyyymmdd>.parquet`. No spaces or uppercase.  
- Access provisioning uses `ops/owners.yaml` for approvals and is logged in IAM change tracker.

## 6. SLA & Compliance
- RPO ≤ 60 minutes for scheduled exports; ad-hoc commitments documented per request.  
- Delivery verification: `sha256sum` manifests stored in `s3://nc-audit-artifacts/exports/`.  
- DR-001 requires rehydrating export pipelines within 6 hours post-incident.

## 7. Validation Workflow
1. Modify contract schema → run `npm run spectral` plus JSON schema tests.  
2. Generate sample export via `python tools/export_sample.py --channel <name>`.  
3. Update `docs/serving/SVC-002-Offline-Export-Contract-Specification.md` with change notes.  
4. Obtain approvals from platform-serving + requesting partner team.  
5. Record delivery evidence (hash + timestamp) for every production run.

## 8. Change Log
| Version | Date | Summary |
|---------|------|---------|
| v0.1 | 2025-11-09 | Initial overview distilled from SVC-002 specification |

Commit message:

Add metadata and acceptance criteria to docs
Added id, title, owner, status, and last_reviewed metadata headers to all major documentation files. Acceptance criteria sections were introduced or expanded in ADRs, data models, contracts, reliability, observability, and DR plan docs. Updated runbook and alert links for clarity. Replaced 'Missing Docs.md' with 'Missing-Docs.md' tracker. These changes improve traceability, governance, and review readiness across the documentation set.

docs/serving/SVC-002-Offline-Export-Contract.md, after:

id: SVC-002
title: Offline Export Contract Overview
owner: platform-serving / data platform
status: Draft v0.1
last_reviewed: 2025-11-09

# SVC-002 Offline Export Contract

**References:** SVC-002-Offline-Export-Contract-Specification.md, LAK-001, PROC-001, DR-001

---

## 1. Purpose
Describe the governed interface for scheduled and ad-hoc exports (batch files, lakehouse pulls, customer S3 deliveries) to ensure consistent schemas, encryption, and auditing.

## 2. Export Channels
| Channel | Delivery | Frequency | Schema Source | Notes |
|---------|----------|-----------|---------------|-------|
| Lakehouse Snapshot | Iceberg manifest | Daily | `schemas/events/export.snapshot.v1.json` | Customers query via Athena workgroup |
| Customer S3 Drop | Encrypted Parquet | Hourly | `schemas/events/export.customer_drop.v1.json` | Customer-managed bucket, enforced KMS |
| Partner API Bundle | Signed ZIP via presigned URL | Ad-hoc | `schemas/events/export.partner.zip.v1.json` | Contains OpenAPI + sample payloads |
| Audit Package | GZIP JSON lines | Monthly | `schemas/events/export.audit.v1.json` | Includes hash chain + evidence pack |

## 3. Sample Deliveries
```text
s3://nc-exports-prod/acme/export.discovery.20251109.parquet
s3://nc-exports-prod/acme/export.discovery.20251109.parquet.sha256
```

```json
{
  "dataset": "discovery",
  "generated_at": "2025-11-09T03:30:00Z",
  "encryption": "aws:kms:arn:aws:kms:us-east-1:123456789012:key/acme",
  "records": 125034,
  "schema_version": "export.snapshot.v1"
}
```

```shell
aws s3 cp s3://nc-exports-prod/acme/export.discovery.20251109.parquet .
aws s3 cp s3://nc-exports-prod/acme/export.discovery.20251109.parquet.sha256 .
sha256sum --check export.discovery.20251109.parquet.sha256
```

## 4. Versioning Policy
| Channel | Current Version | Promotion Rule | Sunset Window |
|---------|-----------------|----------------|---------------|
| Lakehouse Snapshot | `snapshot.v1` | Promote after Iceberg schema passes contract suite | 120 days once `v2` announced |
| Customer S3 Drop | `customer_drop.v1` | Promote when dual-delivery succeeds for 7 days | 60 days |
| Partner API Bundle | `partner.zip.v1` | Promote post security review + sample approval | 90 days |
| Audit Package | `audit.v1` | Promote upon compliance sign-off | 180 days |

## 5. Contract Guardrails
- All exports derived from governed tables listed in LAK-001; no ad-hoc SQL without review.  
- Encryption: KMS CMKs per tenant; data classified ≥ Restricted uses customer-provided keys.  
- Naming: `export.<dataset>.<yyyymmdd>.parquet`. No spaces or uppercase.  
- Access provisioning uses `ops/owners.yaml` for approvals and is logged in IAM change tracker.  
- Standard headers on export-control APIs (for example, `/admin/exports`): `Authorization`, `Tenant-Id`, `Correlation-Id`, aligned with API-001; any write-style operations also require `Idempotency-Key`.  
- Export schemas for each channel (snapshot, customer drop, partner bundle, audit package) must be stored in `schemas/events/` and versioned, with changes following the same compatibility and deprecation rules as other contracts.

## 6. SLA & Compliance
- RPO ≤ 60 minutes for scheduled exports; ad-hoc commitments documented per request.  
- Delivery verification: `sha256sum` manifests stored in `s3://nc-audit-artifacts/exports/`.  
- DR-001 requires rehydrating export pipelines within 6 hours post-incident.

## 7. Validation Workflow
1. Modify contract schema → run `npm run spectral` plus JSON schema tests.  
2. Generate sample export via `python tools/export_sample.py --channel <name>`.  
3. Update `docs/serving/SVC-002-Offline-Export-Contract-Specification.md` with change notes.  
4. Obtain approvals from platform-serving + requesting partner team.  
5. Record delivery evidence (hash + timestamp) for every production run.

## 8. Change Log
|| Version | Date | Summary |
||---------|------|---------|
|| v0.1 | 2025-11-09 | Initial overview distilled from SVC-002 specification |

## 9. Acceptance Criteria
- Export channels and schemas are documented in SVC-002 and registered under `schemas/events/` with explicit versions.  
- All production exports are encrypted with the correct CMK (or customer-provided keys for Restricted data) and validated via checksum manifests.  
- Export naming and layout conventions (dataset, date, tenant) match LAK-001 and can be queried consistently by downstream tools.  
- RPO/RTO targets for export pipelines (including DR-001 requirements) are met during DR drills and documented with evidence.  
- Access provisioning for export destinations is traceable via `ops/owners.yaml` and IAM change records.
