docs/observability/OBS-001-Observability-Strategy-and-Telemetry-Standards.md, before:



OBS-001 Observability Strategy and Telemetry Standards

  

  

  

Scope

  

  

Neurocipher Pipeline on AWS. Applies to ingestion services, external orchestrator (see docs/integrations/README.md) orchestrator, model workers, vector store, data transforms, APIs.

  

  

Objectives

  

  

- Full-fidelity traces for every request path.
- Metrics with clear RED and USE coverage.
- Logs as structured events with correlation IDs.
- Low overhead via sampling and tiered retention.

  

  

  

Telemetry stack

  

  

- Collection: AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry (ADOT) on ECS Fargate and Lambda extensions.
- Tracing: OpenTelemetry Trace API. Export to AWS X-Ray and OTLP to Managed Grafana AMP for exemplars.
- Metrics: Prometheus Remote Write to Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus. System metrics via CloudWatch.
- Logs: JSON to CloudWatch Logs. Firehose to S3 parquet. Optional index: OpenSearch Serverless for short-lived search.
- Dashboards: Amazon Managed Grafana.
- Alerting: CloudWatch Alarms, AMP Alertmanager, SNS, PagerDuty webhook.

  

  

  

Context propagation

  

  

- HTTP: W3C traceparent and tracestate. Fallback to X-Amzn-Trace-Id for AWS services.
- Async: embed correlation_id and trace_id in message headers for SQS, EventBridge, Kinesis.

  

  

  

Event taxonomy

  

  

- Metrics: service, component, stage, region, env.
- Logs: level, event_name, correlation_id, trace_id, span_id, user_scope, outcome, latency_ms.
- Traces: span kind, db.system, messaging.system, net.peer.name, error.type.

  

  

  

Metrics catalog

  

  

- RED for APIs: requests_total, errors_total, request_duration_seconds histogram.
- USE for workers: cpu_utilization, memory_utilization, queue_depth, saturation_ratio.
- Pipeline KPIs: ingest_events_total, dedup_rate, vector_write_latency_ms, retrieval_latency_ms, hit_ratio, batch_retries_total.

  

  

  

Log schema

  

{

  "ts": "RFC3339",

  "service": "ingest-api",

  "env": "prod",

  "level": "INFO",

  "event_name": "document_ingested",

  "correlation_id": "uuid",

  "trace_id": "hex",

  "span_id": "hex",

  "user_scope": "tenant-id",

  "latency_ms": 42,

  "bytes": 1048576,

  "outcome": "success",

  "tags": ["source:web","format:pdf"]

}

  

Sampling policy

  

  

- Default traces 10 percent head-based.
- Always sample errors and p99 slow spans.
- Background jobs 5 percent with tail-based upsample on anomalies.

  

  

  

PII and security

  

  

- Redact emails, tokens, IPs by ADOT processors. Never log secrets.
- Tenant isolation tag required on all metrics and logs.
- S3 buckets encrypted with KMS. Access via IAM least privilege.

  

  

  

Retention

  

  

- CloudWatch Logs hot 7 days. S3 parquet warm 365 days. OpenSearch 14 days.
- AMP time series 30 days. X-Ray 30 days. Grafana dashboards persistent.

  

  

  

Cost controls

  

  

- Metric cardinality guardrails. No high-cardinality labels like user_id.
- Log sampling for verbose components. Compression in Firehose.

  

  

  

OBS-002 Monitoring, Dashboards, and Tracing

  

  

  

Golden signals

  

  

- Availability, latency, throughput, saturation per service.
- Queue depth and age for SQS and Kinesis.
- Vector store ops per second and p95 latency.
- Error budget burn per SLO.

  

  

  

Dashboards

  

  

- Service Overview: RED, error budget, deploy markers.
- Pipeline Health: ingest rate, backpressure, DLQ, reprocess success.
- Storage and Index: Weaviate write latency, shards health, compactions.
- Cost and Cardinality: metrics series count, label tops, log volume.

  

  

  

Tracing standards

  

  

- One span per external call. Name as verb.resource, example get:/v1/ingest.
- Record attributes: http.method, http.route, http.status_code, net.host.name, db.statement sanitized.
- Link background spans to the originating request via parent trace_id.
- Add exemplars from histograms to traces.

  

  

  

Example Prometheus rules

  

groups:

- name: golden

  rules:

  - alert: HighErrorRate

    expr: sum(rate(http_requests_total{status=~"5..",env="prod"}[5m])) 

          / sum(rate(http_requests_total{env="prod"}[5m])) > 0.02

    for: 10m

    labels: {severity: page}

    annotations:

      summary: High 5xx error rate

  - record: job:http_request_duration_seconds:p95

    expr: histogram_quantile(0.95, sum by (le, job) (rate(http_request_duration_seconds_bucket[5m])))

  

CloudWatch alarms

  

  

- Lambda Throttles > 0 for 5 minutes. Severity page.
- Fargate CPUUtilization > 80 percent for 15 minutes. Severity ticket.
- SQS ApproximateAgeOfOldestMessage > 120s for 10 minutes. Page.

  

  

  

Runbook links

  

  

- RB-ING-001 Ingest backlog.
- RB-API-002 Elevated 5xx.
- RB-VEC-003 Vector index latency.
- RB-OPS-004 Cardinality spike.

  

  

  

Ownership

  

  

- Each dashboard has an owner, Slack channel, and escalation policy. Keep contacts updated per release.

  

  

  

OBS-003 Alerting, SLOs, and Incident Response

  

  

  

SLOs and SLIs

  

  

- Ingest API availability: 99.9 percent monthly. SLI = 1 − 5xx_rate.
- P95 ingest API latency: ≤ 300 ms during business hours.
- Pipeline freshness: 99 percent of documents available in index within 5 minutes.
- Vector search p95 latency: ≤ 200 ms.

  

  

  

Error budgets

  

  

- 43.2 minutes per month for 99.9 percent. Track burn rate at 1h and 6h windows.
- Page on fast burn > 2 percent per hour. Ticket on slow burn > 5 percent per day.

  

  

  

Alert policy

  

  

- Page only on user-impacting symptoms, not internal causes.
- One page per incident. Aggregate by service and tenant.
- Suppress during deploy with automatic alerts mute for 10 minutes if success.

  

  

  

Alertmanager routing

  

route:

  receiver: pagerduty

  group_by: [service, env]

  routes:

  - matchers: [severity="ticket"]

    receiver: jira

receivers:

- name: pagerduty

  pagerduty_configs:

  - routing_key: ${PAGERDUTY_KEY}

- name: jira

  webhook_configs:

  - url: https://hooks.example/jira

  

On-call

  

  

- Primary and secondary rotation weekly. Handover notes in runbook.
- Escalation: page after 5 minutes unacked, then engineering manager at 15 minutes.

  

  

  

Incident process

  

  

- Declare incident with severity, impact, start time, commander.
- Live doc with timeline, hypotheses, actions, and owner.
- Comms template for status page and tenant notice.
- Postmortem within 72 hours. Blameless. Action items with owners and due dates.

  

  

  

Automated safeguards

  

  

- Rollback on error-rate regression post deploy using canary and CloudWatch alarm integration.
- Circuit breakers on external dependencies with fallback responses and clear telemetry.

  

  

  

Compliance

  

  

- Retain incident records and alert history 2 years.
- Access to dashboards and logs via IAM roles with least privilege.
- Mask customer content in all artifacts.

 ———

OBS-001 Observability Strategy and Telemetry Standards

  

---

id: OBS-001

title: Observability Strategy and Telemetry Standards

status: Approved

owner: Platform Engineering

last_reviewed: 2025-10-24

tags: [observability, telemetry, metrics, tracing, logging]

---

  

### Scope

Neurocipher Pipeline (AWS). Applies to ingestion, external orchestrator (see docs/integrations/README.md), model workers, vector store, data transforms, APIs.

  

### Objectives

- Full-fidelity tracing for all request paths.  

- Metrics with RED/USE coverage.  

- Structured JSON logs with correlation IDs.  

- Low overhead through sampling and tiered retention.

  

### Telemetry Stack

| Function | Service |

|-----------|----------|

| Collection | AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry (ADOT) |

| Tracing | OpenTelemetry Trace API → AWS X-Ray, OTLP→Grafana AMP |

| Metrics | Prometheus Remote Write → Amazon Managed Prometheus |

| Logs | JSON → CloudWatch, Firehose→S3 Parquet, OpenSearch Serverless |

| Dashboards | Amazon Managed Grafana |

| Alerting | CloudWatch Alarms + AMP Alertmanager + SNS/PagerDuty |

  

### Context Propagation

HTTP uses `traceparent` and `tracestate`.  

Async uses `correlation_id` and `trace_id` in SQS/EventBridge/Kinesis headers.

  

### Event Taxonomy

Metrics: `service`, `component`, `stage`, `region`, `env`.  

Logs: `level`, `event_name`, `correlation_id`, `trace_id`, `span_id`, `user_scope`, `outcome`, `latency_ms`.  

Traces: `span_kind`, `db.system`, `messaging.system`, `net.peer.name`, `error.type`.

  

### Metrics Catalog

- **RED** for APIs: `requests_total`, `errors_total`, `request_duration_seconds`.  

- **USE** for workers: `cpu_utilization`, `memory_utilization`, `queue_depth`.  

- Pipeline KPIs: `ingest_events_total`, `dedup_rate`, `vector_write_latency_ms`, `retrieval_latency_ms`.

- Security Engine: `security_engine.decision_latency_ms`, `security_engine.command_queue_age_s`, `security_engine.action_status_failures_total`, `security_engine.action_status_lag_ms`.

Security Engine spans/logs must include `action_id`, `status_id`, `schema_urn`, and `tenant_id`.

  

### Log Schema

```json

{

  "ts": "RFC3339",

  "service": "ingest-api",

  "env": "prod",

  "level": "INFO",

  "event_name": "document_ingested",

  "correlation_id": "uuid",

  "trace_id": "hex",

  "span_id": "hex",

  "user_scope": "tenant-id",

  "latency_ms": 42,

  "bytes": 1048576,

  "outcome": "success",

  "tags": ["source:web","format:pdf"]

}

  

Sampling

  

  

- 10 % head-based (default)
- Always sample errors and p99 spans
- 5 % for background jobs + tail-based upsample on anomalies

  

  

  

Security and PII

  

  

- Redact tokens/IPs via ADOT processors.
- Tenant tag mandatory.
- S3 encrypted (KMS). IAM least privilege.

  

  

  

Retention

  

|   |   |   |   |
|---|---|---|---|
|Source|Hot|Warm|Cold|
|CloudWatch Logs|7 days|–|S3 365 days|
|OpenSearch|14 days|–|–|
|AMP/X-Ray|30 days|–|–|

  

Cost Controls

  

  

- Limit metric cardinality.
- Sample verbose logs.
- Compress Firehose streams.

  

---

  

## **OBS-002 Monitoring, Dashboards, and Tracing**

  

```markdown

---

id: OBS-002

title: Monitoring, Dashboards, and Tracing

status: Approved

owner: Site Reliability Engineering

last_reviewed: 2025-10-24

tags: [monitoring, dashboards, tracing]

---

  

### Golden Signals

Availability, latency, throughput, saturation per service.  

Queue depth/age (SQS, Kinesis).  

Vector store p95 latency.  

Error budget burn.

  

### Dashboards

- **Service Overview** – RED metrics, deploy markers.  

- **Pipeline Health** – ingest rate, DLQ, reprocess success.  

- **Storage & Index** – Weaviate latency, shard health.  

- **Cost & Cardinality** – metric series count, log volume.

  

### Tracing Standards

- One span per external call. Name as `verb.resource`.  

- Attributes: `http.method`, `http.route`, `http.status_code`, `db.statement` (sanitized).  

- Link async spans to parent `trace_id`.  

- Add exemplars from histograms.

  

### Prometheus Rules

```yaml

groups:

- name: golden

  rules:

  - alert: HighErrorRate

    expr: sum(rate(http_requests_total{status=~"5..",env="prod"}[5m]))

          / sum(rate(http_requests_total{env="prod"}[5m])) > 0.02

    for: 10m

    labels: {severity: page}

    annotations:

      summary: High 5xx error rate

  - record: job:http_request_duration_seconds:p95

    expr: histogram_quantile(0.95, sum by (le, job) (rate(http_request_duration_seconds_bucket[5m])))

  

CloudWatch Alarms

  

  

- Lambda Throttles > 0 for 5 min.
- Fargate CPUUtilization > 80 % for 15 min.
- SQS OldestMessageAge > 120 s for 10 min.

  

  

  

Runbook Links

  

  

RB-ING-001 Ingest Backlog

RB-API-002 Elevated 5xx

RB-VEC-003 Vector Latency

RB-OPS-004 Cardinality Spike

  

  

Ownership

  

  

Each dashboard has an owner, Slack channel, and escalation policy. Update contacts per release.

---

  

## **OBS-003 Alerting, SLOs, and Incident Response**

  

```markdown

---

id: OBS-003

title: Alerting, SLOs, and Incident Response

status: Approved

owner: Reliability Engineering

last_reviewed: 2025-10-24

tags: [alerting, SLO, incident-response]

---

  

### SLOs and SLIs

| Metric | Target | SLI |

|---------|---------|------|

| Ingest API availability | 99.9 % / month | 1 − 5xx_rate |

| P95 API latency | ≤ 300 ms | p95(latency_ms) |

| Pipeline freshness | 99 % ≤ 5 min | time_to_index |

| Vector search latency | ≤ 200 ms | p95(query_latency_ms) |

  

### Error Budgets

43.2 min/month for 99.9 %.  

Burn-rate alerts: > 2 % / h (page), > 5 % / day (ticket).

  

### Alert Policy

Page only on user-impacting symptoms.  

Aggregate by service and tenant.  

Mute deploys for 10 min if healthy.

  

### Alertmanager Routing

```yaml

route:

  receiver: pagerduty

  group_by: [service, env]

  routes:

  - matchers: [severity="ticket"]

    receiver: jira

receivers:

- name: pagerduty

  pagerduty_configs:

  - routing_key: ${PAGERDUTY_KEY}

- name: jira

  webhook_configs:

  - url: https://hooks.example/jira

  

On-Call

  

  

Primary and secondary weekly rotation.

Escalate: 5 min unacked → secondary, 15 min → manager.

  

  

Incident Process

  

  

1. Declare incident (severity, impact, start, commander).
2. Live doc with timeline and actions.
3. Status page and tenant notice.
4. Postmortem within 72 h (blameless, action owners).

  

  

  

Safeguards

  

  

- Auto-rollback on error-rate regression.
- Circuit breakers for external calls with fallback telemetry.

  

  

  

Compliance

  

  

- Retain incident records 2 years.
- IAM least-privilege for logs/dashboards.
- Mask customer data in artifacts.

  

---

  

Would you like me to compile these three into a single PDF (`Observability_Docs.pdf`) or keep as separate `.md` files for direct inclusion in the `/docs/observability/` folder?

Commit message:

Add metadata and acceptance criteria to docs
Added id, title, owner, status, and last_reviewed metadata headers to all major documentation files. Acceptance criteria sections were introduced or expanded in ADRs, data models, contracts, reliability, observability, and DR plan docs. Updated runbook and alert links for clarity. Replaced 'Missing Docs.md' with 'Missing-Docs.md' tracker. These changes improve traceability, governance, and review readiness across the documentation set.

docs/observability/OBS-001-Observability-Strategy-and-Telemetry-Standards.md, after:



id: OBS-001
title: Observability Strategy and Telemetry Standards
owner: Platform Engineering
status: Approved
last_reviewed: 2025-10-24

OBS-001 Observability Strategy and Telemetry Standards

  

  

  

Scope

  

  

Neurocipher Pipeline on AWS. Applies to ingestion services, external orchestrator (see docs/integrations/README.md) orchestrator, model workers, vector store, data transforms, APIs.

  

  

Objectives

  

  

- Full-fidelity traces for every request path.
- Metrics with clear RED and USE coverage.
- Logs as structured events with correlation IDs.
- Low overhead via sampling and tiered retention.

  

  

  

Telemetry stack

  

  

- Collection: AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry (ADOT) on ECS Fargate and Lambda extensions.
- Tracing: OpenTelemetry Trace API. Export to AWS X-Ray and OTLP to Managed Grafana AMP for exemplars.
- Metrics: Prometheus Remote Write to Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus. System metrics via CloudWatch.
- Logs: JSON to CloudWatch Logs. Firehose to S3 parquet. Optional index: OpenSearch Serverless for short-lived search.
- Dashboards: Amazon Managed Grafana.
- Alerting: CloudWatch Alarms, AMP Alertmanager, SNS, PagerDuty webhook.

  

  

  

Context propagation

  

  

- HTTP: W3C traceparent and tracestate. Fallback to X-Amzn-Trace-Id for AWS services.
- Async: embed correlation_id and trace_id in message headers for SQS, EventBridge, Kinesis.

  

  

  

Event taxonomy

  

  

- Metrics: service, component, stage, region, env.
- Logs: level, event_name, correlation_id, trace_id, span_id, user_scope, outcome, latency_ms.
- Traces: span kind, db.system, messaging.system, net.peer.name, error.type.

  

  

  

Metrics catalog

  

  

- RED for APIs: requests_total, errors_total, request_duration_seconds histogram.
- USE for workers: cpu_utilization, memory_utilization, queue_depth, saturation_ratio.
- Pipeline KPIs: ingest_events_total, dedup_rate, vector_write_latency_ms, retrieval_latency_ms, hit_ratio, batch_retries_total.

  

  

  

Log schema

  

{

  "ts": "RFC3339",

  "service": "ingest-api",

  "env": "prod",

  "level": "INFO",

  "event_name": "document_ingested",

  "correlation_id": "uuid",

  "trace_id": "hex",

  "span_id": "hex",

  "user_scope": "tenant-id",

  "latency_ms": 42,

  "bytes": 1048576,

  "outcome": "success",

  "tags": ["source:web","format:pdf"]

}

  

Sampling policy

  

  

- Default traces 10 percent head-based.
- Always sample errors and p99 slow spans.
- Background jobs 5 percent with tail-based upsample on anomalies.

  

  

  

PII and security

  

  

- Redact emails, tokens, IPs by ADOT processors. Never log secrets.
- Tenant isolation tag required on all metrics and logs.
- S3 buckets encrypted with KMS. Access via IAM least privilege.

  

  

  

Retention

  

  

- CloudWatch Logs hot 7 days. S3 parquet warm 365 days. OpenSearch 14 days.
- AMP time series 30 days. X-Ray 30 days. Grafana dashboards persistent.

  

  

  

Cost controls

  

  

- Metric cardinality guardrails. No high-cardinality labels like user_id.
- Log sampling for verbose components. Compression in Firehose.

  

  

  

OBS-002 Monitoring, Dashboards, and Tracing

  

  

  

Golden signals

  

  

- Availability, latency, throughput, saturation per service.
- Queue depth and age for SQS and Kinesis.
- Vector store ops per second and p95 latency.
- Error budget burn per SLO.

  

  

  

Dashboards

  

  

- Service Overview: RED, error budget, deploy markers.
- Pipeline Health: ingest rate, backpressure, DLQ, reprocess success.
- Storage and Index: Weaviate write latency, shards health, compactions.
- Cost and Cardinality: metrics series count, label tops, log volume.

  

  

  

Tracing standards

  

  

- One span per external call. Name as verb.resource, example get:/v1/ingest.
- Record attributes: http.method, http.route, http.status_code, net.host.name, db.statement sanitized.
- Link background spans to the originating request via parent trace_id.
- Add exemplars from histograms to traces.

  

  

  

Example Prometheus rules

  

groups:

- name: golden

  rules:

  - alert: HighErrorRate

    expr: sum(rate(http_requests_total{status=~"5..",env="prod"}[5m])) 

          / sum(rate(http_requests_total{env="prod"}[5m])) > 0.02

    for: 10m

    labels: {severity: page}

    annotations:

      summary: High 5xx error rate

  - record: job:http_request_duration_seconds:p95

    expr: histogram_quantile(0.95, sum by (le, job) (rate(http_request_duration_seconds_bucket[5m])))

  

CloudWatch alarms

  

  

- Lambda Throttles > 0 for 5 minutes. Severity page.
- Fargate CPUUtilization > 80 percent for 15 minutes. Severity ticket.
- SQS ApproximateAgeOfOldestMessage > 120s for 10 minutes. Page.

  

  

  

Runbook links

  

  

- [RB-ING-001 Ingest backlog](../runbooks/RB-ING-001.md).
- [RB-API-002 Elevated 5xx](../runbooks/RB-API-002.md).
- [RB-VEC-003 Vector index latency](../runbooks/RB-VEC-003.md).
- [RB-OPS-004 Cardinality spike](../runbooks/RB-OPS-004.md).

  

  

  
Ownership

  

  

- Each dashboard has an owner, Slack channel, and escalation policy. Keep contacts updated per release.

  

  

  

OBS-003 Alerting, SLOs, and Incident Response

  

  

  

SLOs and SLIs

  

  

- Ingest API availability: 99.9 percent monthly. SLI = 1 − 5xx_rate.
- P95 ingest API latency: ≤ 300 ms during business hours.
- Pipeline freshness: 99 percent of documents available in index within 5 minutes.
- Vector search p95 latency: ≤ 200 ms.

  

  

  

Error budgets

  

  

- 43.2 minutes per month for 99.9 percent. Track burn rate at 1h and 6h windows.
- Page on fast burn > 2 percent per hour. Ticket on slow burn > 5 percent per day.

  

  

  

Alert policy

  

  

- Page only on user-impacting symptoms, not internal causes.
- One page per incident. Aggregate by service and tenant.
- Suppress during deploy with automatic alerts mute for 10 minutes if success.

  

  

  

Alertmanager routing

  

route:

  receiver: pagerduty

  group_by: [service, env]

  routes:

  - matchers: [severity="ticket"]

    receiver: jira

receivers:

- name: pagerduty

  pagerduty_configs:

  - routing_key: ${PAGERDUTY_KEY}

- name: jira

  webhook_configs:

  - url: https://hooks.example/jira

  

On-call

  

  

- Primary and secondary rotation weekly. Handover notes in runbook.
- Escalation: page after 5 minutes unacked, then engineering manager at 15 minutes.

  

  

  

Incident process

  

  

- Declare incident with severity, impact, start time, commander.
- Live doc with timeline, hypotheses, actions, and owner.
- Comms template for status page and tenant notice.
- Postmortem within 72 hours. Blameless. Action items with owners and due dates.

  

  

  

Automated safeguards

  

  

- Rollback on error-rate regression post deploy using canary and CloudWatch alarm integration.
- Circuit breakers on external dependencies with fallback responses and clear telemetry.

  

  

  

Compliance

  

  

- Retain incident records and alert history 2 years.
- Access to dashboards and logs via IAM roles with least privilege.
- Mask customer content in all artifacts.

 ———

OBS-001 Observability Strategy and Telemetry Standards

  

---

id: OBS-001

title: Observability Strategy and Telemetry Standards

status: Approved

owner: Platform Engineering

last_reviewed: 2025-10-24

tags: [observability, telemetry, metrics, tracing, logging]

---

  

### Scope

Neurocipher Pipeline (AWS). Applies to ingestion, external orchestrator (see docs/integrations/README.md), model workers, vector store, data transforms, APIs.

  

### Objectives

- Full-fidelity tracing for all request paths.  

- Metrics with RED/USE coverage.  

- Structured JSON logs with correlation IDs.  

- Low overhead through sampling and tiered retention.

  

### Telemetry Stack

| Function | Service |

|-----------|----------|

| Collection | AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry (ADOT) |

| Tracing | OpenTelemetry Trace API → AWS X-Ray, OTLP→Grafana AMP |

| Metrics | Prometheus Remote Write → Amazon Managed Prometheus |

| Logs | JSON → CloudWatch, Firehose→S3 Parquet, OpenSearch Serverless |

| Dashboards | Amazon Managed Grafana |

| Alerting | CloudWatch Alarms + AMP Alertmanager + SNS/PagerDuty |

  

### Context Propagation

HTTP uses `traceparent` and `tracestate`.  

Async uses `correlation_id` and `trace_id` in SQS/EventBridge/Kinesis headers.

  

### Event Taxonomy

Metrics: `service`, `component`, `stage`, `region`, `env`.  

Logs: `level`, `event_name`, `correlation_id`, `trace_id`, `span_id`, `user_scope`, `outcome`, `latency_ms`.  

Traces: `span_kind`, `db.system`, `messaging.system`, `net.peer.name`, `error.type`.

  

### Metrics Catalog

- **RED** for APIs: `requests_total`, `errors_total`, `request_duration_seconds`.  

- **USE** for workers: `cpu_utilization`, `memory_utilization`, `queue_depth`.  

- Pipeline KPIs: `ingest_events_total`, `dedup_rate`, `vector_write_latency_ms`, `retrieval_latency_ms`.

- Security Engine: `security_engine.decision_latency_ms`, `security_engine.command_queue_age_s`, `security_engine.action_status_failures_total`, `security_engine.action_status_lag_ms`.

Security Engine spans/logs must include `action_id`, `status_id`, `schema_urn`, and `tenant_id`.

  

### Log Schema

```json

{

  "ts": "RFC3339",

  "service": "ingest-api",

  "env": "prod",

  "level": "INFO",

  "event_name": "document_ingested",

  "correlation_id": "uuid",

  "trace_id": "hex",

  "span_id": "hex",

  "user_scope": "tenant-id",

  "latency_ms": 42,

  "bytes": 1048576,

  "outcome": "success",

  "tags": ["source:web","format:pdf"]

}

  

Sampling

  

  

- 10 % head-based (default)
- Always sample errors and p99 spans
- 5 % for background jobs + tail-based upsample on anomalies

  

  

  

Security and PII

  

  

- Redact tokens/IPs via ADOT processors.
- Tenant tag mandatory.
- S3 encrypted (KMS). IAM least privilege.

  

  

  

Retention

  

|   |   |   |   |
|---|---|---|---|
|Source|Hot|Warm|Cold|
|CloudWatch Logs|7 days|–|S3 365 days|
|OpenSearch|14 days|–|–|
|AMP/X-Ray|30 days|–|–|

  

Cost Controls

  

  

- Limit metric cardinality.
- Sample verbose logs.
- Compress Firehose streams.

### Acceptance Criteria

- All in-scope services emit metrics, logs, and traces following the field and tag conventions in this spec (including `service`, `component`, `stage`, `region`, and `env`).
- HTTP and async context propagation (`traceparent`, `tracestate`, `correlation_id`, `trace_id`) is implemented across ingestion, workers, vector store, and APIs.
- The telemetry stack (ADOT, AMP, CloudWatch → Firehose → S3, OpenSearch, Grafana, Alertmanager) is deployed and wired together as described here.
- Sampling, PII handling, retention, and cost-control policies (cardinality guardrails, log sampling, KMS encryption) are enforced for all production environments.
- Security Engine events and actions include the required observability fields (`action_id`, `status_id`, `schema_urn`, `tenant_id`) in metrics, logs, and traces.

---

---

  

## **OBS-002 Monitoring, Dashboards, and Tracing**

  

```markdown

---

id: OBS-002

title: Monitoring, Dashboards, and Tracing

status: Approved

owner: Site Reliability Engineering

last_reviewed: 2025-10-24

tags: [monitoring, dashboards, tracing]

---

  

### Golden Signals

Availability, latency, throughput, saturation per service.  

Queue depth/age (SQS, Kinesis).  

Vector store p95 latency.  

Error budget burn.

  

### Dashboards

- **Service Overview** – RED metrics, deploy markers.  

- **Pipeline Health** – ingest rate, DLQ, reprocess success.  

- **Storage & Index** – Weaviate latency, shard health.  

- **Cost & Cardinality** – metric series count, log volume.

  

### Tracing Standards

- One span per external call. Name as `verb.resource`.  

- Attributes: `http.method`, `http.route`, `http.status_code`, `db.statement` (sanitized).  

- Link async spans to parent `trace_id`.  

- Add exemplars from histograms.

  

### Prometheus Rules

```yaml

groups:

- name: golden

  rules:

  - alert: HighErrorRate

    expr: sum(rate(http_requests_total{status=~"5..",env="prod"}[5m]))

          / sum(rate(http_requests_total{env="prod"}[5m])) > 0.02

    for: 10m

    labels: {severity: page}

    annotations:

      summary: High 5xx error rate

  - record: job:http_request_duration_seconds:p95

    expr: histogram_quantile(0.95, sum by (le, job) (rate(http_request_duration_seconds_bucket[5m])))

  

CloudWatch Alarms

  

  

- Lambda Throttles > 0 for 5 min.
- Fargate CPUUtilization > 80 % for 15 min.
- SQS OldestMessageAge > 120 s for 10 min.

  

  

  

Runbook Links

  

  

- [RB-ING-001 Ingest Backlog](../runbooks/RB-ING-001.md)
- [RB-API-002 Elevated 5xx](../runbooks/RB-API-002.md)
- [RB-VEC-003 Vector Latency](../runbooks/RB-VEC-003.md)
- [RB-OPS-004 Cardinality Spike](../runbooks/RB-OPS-004.md)

  

  
Ownership

  

  

Each dashboard has an owner, Slack channel, and escalation policy. Update contacts per release.

---

  

## **OBS-003 Alerting, SLOs, and Incident Response**

  

```markdown

---

id: OBS-003

title: Alerting, SLOs, and Incident Response

status: Approved

owner: Reliability Engineering

last_reviewed: 2025-10-24

tags: [alerting, SLO, incident-response]

---

  

### SLOs and SLIs

| Metric | Target | SLI |

|---------|---------|------|

| Ingest API availability | 99.9 % / month | 1 − 5xx_rate |

| P95 API latency | ≤ 300 ms | p95(latency_ms) |

| Pipeline freshness | 99 % ≤ 5 min | time_to_index |

| Vector search latency | ≤ 200 ms | p95(query_latency_ms) |

  

### Error Budgets

43.2 min/month for 99.9 %.  

Burn-rate alerts: > 2 % / h (page), > 5 % / day (ticket).

  

### Alert Policy

Page only on user-impacting symptoms.  

Aggregate by service and tenant.  

Mute deploys for 10 min if healthy.

  

### Alertmanager Routing

```yaml

route:

  receiver: pagerduty

  group_by: [service, env]

  routes:

  - matchers: [severity="ticket"]

    receiver: jira

receivers:

- name: pagerduty

  pagerduty_configs:

  - routing_key: ${PAGERDUTY_KEY}

- name: jira

  webhook_configs:

  - url: https://hooks.example/jira

  

On-Call

  

  

Primary and secondary weekly rotation.

Escalate: 5 min unacked → secondary, 15 min → manager.

  

  

Incident Process

  

  

1. Declare incident (severity, impact, start, commander).
2. Live doc with timeline and actions.
3. Status page and tenant notice.
4. Postmortem within 72 h (blameless, action owners).

  

  

  

Safeguards

  

  

- Auto-rollback on error-rate regression.
- Circuit breakers for external calls with fallback telemetry.

  

  

  

Compliance

  

  

- Retain incident records 2 years.
- IAM least-privilege for logs/dashboards.
- Mask customer data in artifacts.

  

---

  

Would you like me to compile these three into a single PDF (`Observability_Docs.pdf`) or keep as separate `.md` files for direct inclusion in the `/docs/observability/` folder?
