docs/data-models/Data-Models-Catalog.md, before:


# Domain Model Catalog

  

## Core entities

- Source

- IngestJob

- Document

- Chunk

- Embedding

- MetadataTag

- IndexEntry

- User

- ApiKey

- AuditLog

- DataContract

- DeletionRequest

  

## Relationships (plain)

- Source 1—* IngestJob

- IngestJob 1—* Document

- Document 1—* Chunk

- Chunk 1—1 Embedding

- Document *—* MetadataTag

- Chunk *—* MetadataTag

- Chunk 1—* IndexEntry

  

## Entity fields (minimal)

### Source

- id, type, name, settings, created_at

  

### IngestJob

- id, source_id, status, started_at, finished_at, error

  

### Document

- id, job_id, source_id, uri, mime_type, bytes, checksum, created_at, normalized_at, contract_version

  

### Chunk

- id, document_id, ord, text, tokens, created_at

  

### Embedding

- chunk_id, vector, model, dim, created_at

  

### MetadataTag

- id, key, value, scope, created_at

  

### IndexEntry

- chunk_id, weaviate_id, opensearch_id, created_at

  

### User

- id, email, role, created_at

  

### ApiKey

- id, user_id, name, last_used_at, created_at, revoked

  

### AuditLog

- id, actor, action, target_type, target_id, payload_json, ts

  

### DataContract

- id, name, version, json_schema_ref, state, created_at

  

### DeletionRequest

- id, target_type, target_id, reason, state, created_at, closed_at

  

2) ERD and Storage Schemas.md

  

# ERD and Storage Schemas

  

## DynamoDB tables

### documents

- PK: doc#${document_id}

- SK: v#${iso_timestamp}

- GSI1: source#${source_id}

- attrs: job_id, uri, mime_type, checksum, contract_version, created_at, normalized_at

  

### chunks

- PK: doc#${document_id}

- SK: chunk#${ord}

- GSI1: chunk#${chunk_id}

- attrs: text, tokens, created_at

  

### embeddings

- PK: chunk#${chunk_id}

- SK: emb#${model}

- attrs: vector(float[]), dim, created_at

  

### tags

- PK: tag#${key}

- SK: val#${value}#${target_type}#${target_id}

- GSI1: target#${target_type}#${target_id}

- attrs: scope, created_at

  

### audit_logs

- PK: audit#${date}

- SK: ${ts}#${id}

- GSI1: target#${target_type}#${target_id}

- attrs: actor, action, payload_json

  

## Weaviate class

```json

{

  "class": "Chunk",

  "vectorIndexType": "hnsw",

  "vectorizer": "none",

  "properties": [

    {"name":"chunk_id","dataType":["text"],"indexInverted":true},

    {"name":"document_id","dataType":["text"],"indexInverted":true},

    {"name":"ord","dataType":["int"]},

    {"name":"text","dataType":["text"],"indexInverted":true},

    {"name":"tags","dataType":["text[]"],"indexInverted":true},

    {"name":"source_id","dataType":["text"],"indexInverted":true}

  ]

}

  

OpenSearch index mapping

  

{

  "mappings": {

    "properties": {

      "chunk_id": {"type":"keyword"},

      "document_id": {"type":"keyword"},

      "ord": {"type":"integer"},

      "text": {"type":"text"},

      "source_id": {"type":"keyword"},

      "tags": {"type":"keyword"},

      "created_at": {"type":"date"}

    }

  },

  "settings": {

    "index": {

      "number_of_shards": 2,

      "number_of_replicas": 1

    }

  }

}

# 3) JSON Schemas Catalog.md

```md

# JSON Schemas Catalog

  

## $defs

All schemas use `$schema: "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema"`.

  

### NormalizedDocument v1

```json

{

  "$id":"https://neurocipher.io/schemas/normalized_document.v1.json",

  "$schema":"https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema",

  "type":"object",

  "required":["id","source_id","uri","mime_type","chunks","contract_version"],

  "properties":{

    "id":{"type":"string"},

    "source_id":{"type":"string"},

    "uri":{"type":"string"},

    "mime_type":{"type":"string"},

    "checksum":{"type":"string"},

    "contract_version":{"type":"string"},

    "metadata":{"type":"object","additionalProperties":true},

    "chunks":{

      "type":"array",

      "items":{"$ref":"#/$defs/Chunk"}

    }

  },

  "$defs":{

    "Chunk":{

      "type":"object",

      "required":["id","ord","text"],

      "properties":{

        "id":{"type":"string"},

        "ord":{"type":"integer","minimum":0},

        "text":{"type":"string"},

        "tags":{"type":"array","items":{"type":"string"}}

      }

    }

  }

}

  

IngestRequest v1

  

{

  "$id":"https://neurocipher.io/schemas/ingest_request.v1.json",

  "$schema":"https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema",

  "type":"object",

  "required":["source_id","items"],

  "properties":{

    "source_id":{"type":"string"},

    "items":{"type":"array","items":{"$ref":"#/$defs/Item"}}

  },

  "$defs":{

    "Item":{

      "type":"object",

      "required":["uri"],

      "properties":{"uri":{"type":"string"}}

    }

  }

}

  

QueryResponse v1

  

{

  "$id":"https://neurocipher.io/schemas/query_response.v1.json",

  "$schema":"https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema",

  "type":"object",

  "required":["query","top_k","hits"],

  "properties":{

    "query":{"type":"string"},

    "top_k":{"type":"integer"},

    "mode":{"type":"string","enum":["hybrid","vector","keyword"]},

    "hits":{

      "type":"array",

      "items":{

        "type":"object",

        "required":["chunk_id","score","text","document_id"],

        "properties":{

          "chunk_id":{"type":"string"},

          "document_id":{"type":"string"},

          "score":{"type":"number"},

          "text":{"type":"string"},

          "uri":{"type":"string"},

          "tags":{"type":"array","items":{"type":"string"}}

        }

      }

    }

  }

}

# 4) Event Models and Contracts.md

```md

# Event Models and Contracts

  

## Naming

- Topic: `nc.data.events`

- Envelope: CloudEvents 1.0

  

## CloudEvents envelope (shared)

```json

{

  "specversion":"1.0",

  "id":"<uuid>",

  "source":"nc.pipeline.<component>",

  "type":"<EventType>",

  "time":"<rfc3339>",

  "datacontenttype":"application/json",

  "data":{}

}

  

Events

  

  

  

IngestRequested.v1

  

{

  "job_id":"<uuid>",

  "source_id":"<id>",

  "items":[{"uri":"s3://..."}]

}

  

IngestCompleted.v1

  

{"job_id":"<uuid>","source_id":"<id>","count":123,"errors":0}

  

NormalizedCreated.v1

  

{"document_id":"<uuid>","job_id":"<uuid>","source_id":"<id>","chunk_count":42}

  

EmbedRequested.v1

  

{"document_id":"<uuid>","chunk_ids":["c1","c2"],"model":"text-embedding-3-large"}

  

EmbedCompleted.v1

  

{"document_id":"<uuid>","embedded":42,"model":"text-embedding-3-large"}

  

IndexUpserted.v1

  

{"chunk_ids":["c1","c2"],"weaviate_ids":["..."],"opensearch_ids":["..."]}

  

DeletionRequested.v1

  

{"target_type":"document","target_id":"<uuid>","reason":"gdpr-erasure"}

  

DeletionCompleted.v1

  

{"target_type":"document","target_id":"<uuid>","removed_chunks":42,"removed_vectors":42}

# 5) Data Contracts and Versioning.md

```md

# Data Contracts and Versioning

  

## Scope

- NormalizedDocument.v*

- IngestRequest.v*

- QueryResponse.v*

- Event types *.v*

  

## Versioning rules

- Semantic: MAJOR.MINOR

- Backward compatible in MINOR

- Breaking in MAJOR only

- Each payload includes `contract_version`

  

## Registry

- Location: `s3://nc-contracts/${name}/v${major}.${minor}/schema.json`

- Index: `contracts/index.json` with latest pointers

- Promotion: draft → candidate → accepted

  

## Compatibility checks

- CI step validates JSON with `ajv` and golden samples

- Canary on staging topics for new MINOR

- Dual write for one week on MAJOR

  

## Deprecation policy

- Announce in `/contracts/changelog.md`

- Maintain previous MAJOR for 90 days

- Provide migration notes and sample transforms

  

## Example transform (v1 → v2)

```jq

# add default tags array and map "content" → "text"

.walk(

  if type=="object" and has("content")

  then .text = .content | del(.content)

  else .

  end

) | if has("tags")==false then .tags=[] else . end

Commit message:

Add metadata and acceptance criteria to docs
Added id, title, owner, status, and last_reviewed metadata headers to all major documentation files. Acceptance criteria sections were introduced or expanded in ADRs, data models, contracts, reliability, observability, and DR plan docs. Updated runbook and alert links for clarity. Replaced 'Missing Docs.md' with 'Missing-Docs.md' tracker. These changes improve traceability, governance, and review readiness across the documentation set.

docs/data-models/Data-Models-Catalog.md, after:


id: DM-CATALOG
title: Domain Model Catalog (Legacy)
owner: Data Architecture
status: Deprecated (superseded by DM-001–DM-005)
last_reviewed: 2025-11-15

# Domain Model Catalog

  

## Core entities

- Source

- IngestJob

- Document

- Chunk

- Embedding

- MetadataTag

- IndexEntry

- User

- ApiKey

- AuditLog

- DataContract

- DeletionRequest

  

## Relationships (plain)

- Source 1—* IngestJob

- IngestJob 1—* Document

- Document 1—* Chunk

- Chunk 1—1 Embedding

- Document *—* MetadataTag

- Chunk *—* MetadataTag

- Chunk 1—* IndexEntry

  

## Entity fields (minimal)

### Source

- id, type, name, settings, created_at

  

### IngestJob

- id, source_id, status, started_at, finished_at, error

  

### Document

- id, job_id, source_id, uri, mime_type, bytes, checksum, created_at, normalized_at, contract_version

  

### Chunk

- id, document_id, ord, text, tokens, created_at

  

### Embedding

- chunk_id, vector, model, dim, created_at

  

### MetadataTag

- id, key, value, scope, created_at

  

### IndexEntry

- chunk_id, weaviate_id, opensearch_id, created_at

  

### User

- id, email, role, created_at

  

### ApiKey

- id, user_id, name, last_used_at, created_at, revoked

  

### AuditLog

- id, actor, action, target_type, target_id, payload_json, ts

  

### DataContract

- id, name, version, json_schema_ref, state, created_at

  

### DeletionRequest

- id, target_type, target_id, reason, state, created_at, closed_at
  
## Acceptance Criteria

- This catalog is clearly marked as legacy and points readers to DM-001–DM-005 as the canonical data model specifications.
- Any new data modeling or storage design work is reviewed against DM-001–DM-005 and DM-003 physical schemas rather than relying solely on the DynamoDB and CloudEvents patterns in this document.
- References from other docs treat this file as historical context only; normative contracts live in DM-001–DM-005 and DCON-001.

2) ERD and Storage Schemas.md

2) ERD and Storage Schemas.md

  

# ERD and Storage Schemas

  

## DynamoDB tables

### documents

- PK: doc#${document_id}

- SK: v#${iso_timestamp}

- GSI1: source#${source_id}

- attrs: job_id, uri, mime_type, checksum, contract_version, created_at, normalized_at

  

### chunks

- PK: doc#${document_id}

- SK: chunk#${ord}

- GSI1: chunk#${chunk_id}

- attrs: text, tokens, created_at

  

### embeddings

- PK: chunk#${chunk_id}

- SK: emb#${model}

- attrs: vector(float[]), dim, created_at

  

### tags

- PK: tag#${key}

- SK: val#${value}#${target_type}#${target_id}

- GSI1: target#${target_type}#${target_id}

- attrs: scope, created_at

  

### audit_logs

- PK: audit#${date}

- SK: ${ts}#${id}

- GSI1: target#${target_type}#${target_id}

- attrs: actor, action, payload_json

  

## Weaviate class

```json

{

  "class": "Chunk",

  "vectorIndexType": "hnsw",

  "vectorizer": "none",

  "properties": [

    {"name":"chunk_id","dataType":["text"],"indexInverted":true},

    {"name":"document_id","dataType":["text"],"indexInverted":true},

    {"name":"ord","dataType":["int"]},

    {"name":"text","dataType":["text"],"indexInverted":true},

    {"name":"tags","dataType":["text[]"],"indexInverted":true},

    {"name":"source_id","dataType":["text"],"indexInverted":true}

  ]

}

  

OpenSearch index mapping

  

{

  "mappings": {

    "properties": {

      "chunk_id": {"type":"keyword"},

      "document_id": {"type":"keyword"},

      "ord": {"type":"integer"},

      "text": {"type":"text"},

      "source_id": {"type":"keyword"},

      "tags": {"type":"keyword"},

      "created_at": {"type":"date"}

    }

  },

  "settings": {

    "index": {

      "number_of_shards": 2,

      "number_of_replicas": 1

    }

  }

}

# 3) JSON Schemas Catalog.md

```md

# JSON Schemas Catalog

  

## $defs

All schemas use `$schema: "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema"`.

  

### NormalizedDocument v1

```json

{

  "$id":"https://neurocipher.io/schemas/normalized_document.v1.json",

  "$schema":"https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema",

  "type":"object",

  "required":["id","source_id","uri","mime_type","chunks","contract_version"],

  "properties":{

    "id":{"type":"string"},

    "source_id":{"type":"string"},

    "uri":{"type":"string"},

    "mime_type":{"type":"string"},

    "checksum":{"type":"string"},

    "contract_version":{"type":"string"},

    "metadata":{"type":"object","additionalProperties":true},

    "chunks":{

      "type":"array",

      "items":{"$ref":"#/$defs/Chunk"}

    }

  },

  "$defs":{

    "Chunk":{

      "type":"object",

      "required":["id","ord","text"],

      "properties":{

        "id":{"type":"string"},

        "ord":{"type":"integer","minimum":0},

        "text":{"type":"string"},

        "tags":{"type":"array","items":{"type":"string"}}

      }

    }

  }

}

  

IngestRequest v1

  

{

  "$id":"https://neurocipher.io/schemas/ingest_request.v1.json",

  "$schema":"https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema",

  "type":"object",

  "required":["source_id","items"],

  "properties":{

    "source_id":{"type":"string"},

    "items":{"type":"array","items":{"$ref":"#/$defs/Item"}}

  },

  "$defs":{

    "Item":{

      "type":"object",

      "required":["uri"],

      "properties":{"uri":{"type":"string"}}

    }

  }

}

  

QueryResponse v1

  

{

  "$id":"https://neurocipher.io/schemas/query_response.v1.json",

  "$schema":"https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema",

  "type":"object",

  "required":["query","top_k","hits"],

  "properties":{

    "query":{"type":"string"},

    "top_k":{"type":"integer"},

    "mode":{"type":"string","enum":["hybrid","vector","keyword"]},

    "hits":{

      "type":"array",

      "items":{

        "type":"object",

        "required":["chunk_id","score","text","document_id"],

        "properties":{

          "chunk_id":{"type":"string"},

          "document_id":{"type":"string"},

          "score":{"type":"number"},

          "text":{"type":"string"},

          "uri":{"type":"string"},

          "tags":{"type":"array","items":{"type":"string"}}

        }

      }

    }

  }

}

# 4) Event Models and Contracts.md

```md

# Event Models and Contracts

  

## Naming

- Topic: `nc.data.events`

- Envelope: CloudEvents 1.0

  

## CloudEvents envelope (shared)

```json

{

  "specversion":"1.0",

  "id":"<uuid>",

  "source":"nc.pipeline.<component>",

  "type":"<EventType>",

  "time":"<rfc3339>",

  "datacontenttype":"application/json",

  "data":{}

}

  

Events

  

  

  

IngestRequested.v1

  

{

  "job_id":"<uuid>",

  "source_id":"<id>",

  "items":[{"uri":"s3://..."}]

}

  

IngestCompleted.v1

  

{"job_id":"<uuid>","source_id":"<id>","count":123,"errors":0}

  

NormalizedCreated.v1

  

{"document_id":"<uuid>","job_id":"<uuid>","source_id":"<id>","chunk_count":42}

  

EmbedRequested.v1

  

{"document_id":"<uuid>","chunk_ids":["c1","c2"],"model":"text-embedding-3-large"}

  

EmbedCompleted.v1

  

{"document_id":"<uuid>","embedded":42,"model":"text-embedding-3-large"}

  

IndexUpserted.v1

  

{"chunk_ids":["c1","c2"],"weaviate_ids":["..."],"opensearch_ids":["..."]}

  

DeletionRequested.v1

  

{"target_type":"document","target_id":"<uuid>","reason":"gdpr-erasure"}

  

DeletionCompleted.v1

  

{"target_type":"document","target_id":"<uuid>","removed_chunks":42,"removed_vectors":42}

# 5) Data Contracts and Versioning.md

```md

# Data Contracts and Versioning

  

## Scope

- NormalizedDocument.v*

- IngestRequest.v*

- QueryResponse.v*

- Event types *.v*

  

## Versioning rules

- Semantic: MAJOR.MINOR

- Backward compatible in MINOR

- Breaking in MAJOR only

- Each payload includes `contract_version`

  

## Registry

- Location: `s3://nc-contracts/${name}/v${major}.${minor}/schema.json`

- Index: `contracts/index.json` with latest pointers

- Promotion: draft → candidate → accepted

  

## Compatibility checks

- CI step validates JSON with `ajv` and golden samples

- Canary on staging topics for new MINOR

- Dual write for one week on MAJOR

  

## Deprecation policy

- Announce in `/contracts/changelog.md`

- Maintain previous MAJOR for 90 days

- Provide migration notes and sample transforms

  

## Example transform (v1 → v2)

```jq

# add default tags array and map "content" → "text"

.walk(

  if type=="object" and has("content")

  then .text = .content | del(.content)

  else .

  end

) | if has("tags")==false then .tags=[] else . end
